[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SIMON CHOKOISKY: We entered
a massive outsider period
that isn't over until 2033.
So we have 12
years left in this.
People are questioning
mainstream media.
mainstream government.
People are questioning
mainstream economics.
Anyway, the questioning
is part of it.
The anxiety is part of it.
Open up to the
divine and say, Lord,
how was this part of the plan?
I'm feeling so
abandoned right now.
Please help me.
That's actually healthy.
And then let the answers come.
We are all functionally
outsiders right now.
And how we handle this--
the great thing about
an outsider, period,
is you have tremendous freedom.
Embrace the positive and take
responsibility and say, OK.
The viveka.
In Sanskrit, the word is viveka.
Nitya anitya vastu viveka.
To know the difference between
what is ultimately real
and what is not real.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: And that
is the biggest challenge
facing the planet right now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
One of our Gaia favorites,
Simon Chokoisky,
is back with us
today and we're going
to be riffing on a few
current and relevant themes.
With a renewed global
interest in the alien issue
these days, Simon
and I will discuss,
among other topics,
aliens and spirituality
from a Vedic perspective.
Some of you watching
this believe
that a more advanced
species is going
to save humanity, while
others believe it's up to us.
So we're going to dive
into that a little bit.
But we're going
off-script right away.
>>CHOKOISKY: Let's do it.
>>REGINA: We weren't
planning on doing this,
but it's just so
fascinating, we need to.
With the whole global COVID
thing that has passed through
now, by now it's-- gosh,
it's coming up on two years.
And we've watched
waves go through.
We've watched society
divide itself, the shaming--
each side shaming
the other side.
Division, division, division.
Simon, I want to talk
to you about this,
because you've been talking to
your private audience about it.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Well, my way into everything is
through the astrological angle.
And what astrology
gives us is an insight
into, how am I going
to handle this?
That's the way I
approach things.
And based on my
experience with my chart,
and looking at the
chart of clients,
there are markers in your
horoscope that show sensitivity
to--
especially to
allopathic medicine.
And when those same
markers are absent,
it means that you would do
well with allopathic medicine.
Because some people
love antibiotics.
They love their
allopathic drugs.
They work for them.
And others, if they get on
even the most minor kind
of-- metformin or whatever it
is, they have severe reactions.
It's an individual
case and I think
having kind of a
tempered view of it,
that it's not absolute--
it's case-dependent.
And the Vedic tradition is
always, is aspirin good or bad
for you?
Well, it depends.
Who is the person
we're talking about?
>>REGINA: Well, I
find it fascinating.
If someone were to, say,
pull up their chart-- or, say
you have someone who knows
what a chart looks like
and what these things mean.
Have their chart
read, where would you
be able-- what house,
what signs, would you see
sensitivities in, in general?
Now, they'll have to do their
own homework on this one.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
There are parts of the zodiac
in the horoscope-- in the Vedic
zodiac especially--
called Sarpa drekkanas.
And a drekkana is a decanate.
It's a 10-degree portion of
the zodiac that's associated
with poison-- with snakes.
"Sarpa" means snake.
It's where the word "serpent"
comes from, in Sanskrit.
The serpent parts of the
horoscope, which are maybe,
I'd say, a fourth
of the chart or so,
if you have planets there, then
they'll indicate sensitivity,
especially if it's a mollific
planet, like Mars, or Saturn,
and so forth.
It can be--
>>REGINA: What if it's Venus?
>>CHOKOISKY: If it's Venus,
then it means that you will be
especially sensitive
to a love situation,
potentially venereal
diseases, potentially--
>>REGINA: Things that
come through love.
>>CHOKOISKY: Through
love, yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: STDs.
>>CHOKOISKY: STDs,
stuff like that.
So you would be poisoned
through those things.
But if it's Mars,
Saturn, the south node
or the north node
of the moon, it
can be potentially
more dangerous.
>>REGINA: Oh,
that's fascinating.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
particularly if you're
in a period of life that's
ruled by those planets,
then you have to be
especially careful.
And granted, it's not--
most of the population doesn't
have any kind of-- doesn't have
that severe of a--
I'm taking a sample from
the charts that I've read.
Most of the clients
that I've read
don't have severe issues
there, but a few do.
And those are the people
that I would caution.
And they, I think, intuitively
also know that, hey, this is--
I've got to do a
lot of research.
>>REGINA: I feel like I-- yeah,
I can't do this without really
knowing what I'm doing,
because other drugs have
affected them poorly.
But you have to
get a Vedic chart,
because those look different.
How would that look
in Western astrology?
>>CHOKOISKY: In
Western astrology,
which also uses the decanates
and the divisions of the sign,
I would look at the
nodes of the moon.
I would look at aspects between
the nodes in your ascendant--
some of the outer
planets, like Sedna.
Sedna has to do with drowning.
And part of the COVID
symptoms are, you're drowning.
If you were to get it,
the lungs are affected--
>>REGINA: Feeling like
you can't breathe.
Well, it's targeted
at the lungs.
Yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: If Sedna is in--
so there are ways to look at in
the Western horoscope as well.
But most of all, listen
and trust your body.
If you've had reactions to
allopathic and chemical things
in the past, if you
have a delicate--
this is an individual choice.
I respect people's right
to their own choice.
I don't necessarily respect--
I respect people's
right to their opinion.
I don't necessarily
respect the opinion itself.
But definitely, I
respect your right
to have it on
whatever side you are.
And this is my opinion.
>>REGINA: Well, it's
so deeply personal,
because we have been
under-educated and
under-informed about it.
We have not been
educated at all.
One of the things I found
really interesting is--
I went through the whole
COVID experience personally.
What I found interesting
at the end of it
all is how little
information we'd
been given about any of it.
I mean, we-- my husband and
I could have easily infected
other people because we
didn't even know we had it.
Because there are certain subtle
symptoms you would think, oh,
maybe I have a little allergy.
A lot of people thought
they had allergies.
Without education, we're really
all left to our own devices.
And that makes us
jumpy and nervous.
And no one knows who's
right or wrong yet on this.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Well, I think that's
the responsible thing.
You bring up the word education,
and a tempered and sort
of even-minded
approach to, hey, here
is what we know, and make
your decisions based on that.
>>REGINA: Now, let's look--
we do this-- you and I do
other interviews on my site
too, where we go into these
astrological cycles about what
to look for.
Let's do that now regarding the
whole COVID era that's inside
of an outsider dharma era.
And you had said that
April of 2021, things
will start loosening up.
Life will start--
well, that did happen.
Life started returning
to normal, so to speak.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's going
to go back a little bit.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
what I want to talk about.
What's the next cycle in the
fall, and then into 2022?
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
In the Vedic chart, we're
following the movement
of the planet Jupiter.
And this is going to sound
crazy to someone who is not
really trained in astrology.
What?
Jupiter?
What does Jupiter have
to do with COVID or this?
But just follow along, maybe
with an open mind, hopefully.
Because--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
The show is called "Open Minds."
>>CHOKOISKY: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So yeah, requirement.
>>CHOKOISKY: As Jupiter was in
the sidereal sign of Capricorn,
all of this stuff
happened with COVID.
Then it changed into Aquarius,
which has given us relief.
It's about to go back.
And--
>>REGINA: Oh, it's
going retrograde?
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah, in fall.
>>REGINA: For how long?
>>CHOKOISKY: It's going to
be there for a few months.
Starting, I think,
September or so of 2021,
we'll be back in that position.
These lockdown-- Capricorn
is a sign of confinement,
whereas Aquarius is all
about, I want to be free.
>>REGINA: Boy, have we seen
that quite literally reflected
in society around the world.
>>CHOKOISKY: So we're going
to go back a little bit.
There's going to be--
probably will be
some more lockdowns
on a more limited basis, because
we won't be there too long.
But at least two
or three months.
>>REGINA: And so by 2022?
>>CHOKOISKY: Should
start to get relief.
But really not until the
spring of 2022, I think.
This thing-- the residue,
and the residual effect,
is going to stay with
us for a long time--
fortunately and unfortunately.
In some ways--
>>REGINA: Tell us
what you mean by that.
>>CHOKOISKY: Well, as we were
saying a little bit off camera,
viruses, in many ways--
from the biological
perspective--
drive our evolution forward.
We've co-existed with
viruses for a very long time.
Like I mentioned about
the markets falling.
You either become--
you either freak out
or you become very spiritual.
Same thing with this.
You either freak out and have
a negative reaction to it,
or you use it to make
your faith stronger,
to bring you deeper
into self-knowledge
and to try to be
even-minded, even
within-- while the
hurricane is going--
to try to be the eye
of the hurricane,
even while everything is
spinning and breaking down
around you, apparently.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yeah, and I mean, just
on a personal level,
I shared with you off-camera,
I had this inexplicable,
kind of euphoric experience
when I was done-- everything--
I was breathing fine,
out of the woods,
and recovered, basically.
I felt like something
good had just happened,
like there was an--
I couldn't even explain it.
Because it was just a feeling--
an upgrade of sorts.
And then I was flashing.
And you and I were
talking about viruses.
And my husband Zeus,
many times, has
said viruses have
always brought him
to a higher level of some
part of his consciousness.
And we're not looking
at it in this way.
I mean, society is not
looking at it in this way.
So maybe this is an
invitation for people
to start looking at what
these potentials are,
our evolutionary path--
because we're in a big one.
And we'll talk about
that in the outsider--
when we talk about
the outsider phase.
We're in a big potential
for evolutionary leap.
So having this
thing on the planet
gave us an opportunity
to, as you say,
see ourselves, and
contend, and grow.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Even physiologically, viruses
have helped us evolve.
Many biological functions
are a product of viruses.
The human placenta
is a product of that,
and other biological
things we take for granted.
They're with us.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We just need to look
at a higher level.
>>CHOKOISKY: And the question
with this one that a lot
of people said--
well, they're with us,
but they weren't
man-made, or-- and--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And yeah, that's true.
>>CHOKOISKY: That's a
valid point to look at.
>>REGINA: It's problematic.
It doesn't behave like
an influenza or a cold.
It's different.
You get totally
different, weird symptoms.
So it is different.
But it doesn't mean the body
can't adapt somehow and jump
beyond that, or incorporate
it, on some level,
on an immune system.
Now, if we go into a
lot of fear and such--
which, I think an outsider
period does cause fear.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's the easy--
it's the easiest reaction.
It's a natural
reaction, actually.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So let's talk about it.
We're in this outsider phase.
Give the years
again for those who
don't remember this, and how
this whole COVID thing fit in
in our natural reaction, and our
opportunity to grow and learn.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Well, 2016-- end of 2015, but
basically 2016, we began--
we, the United States as a
country, but really the world,
I think.
Because the US tends to
lead, and kind of the world--
>>REGINA: Watches.
>>CHOKOISKY: --adopts a
lot of what happens here.
We entered a massive
outsider period
that isn't over until 2033.
We have 12 years left in this.
What happens is, you begin to
question the powers that be.
People are questioning
mainstream media.
People who are questioning
mainstream government.
People are questioning
mainstream economics--
and creating viable
alternatives.
But in the process
of questioning,
there's anxiety, fear.
You start to throw away, OK,
well, the government's not
working.
Well, is all of the
government not working?
I mean the trash people
are still coming, right?
So you can't throw
all of it away.
But you have to question.
The mainstream
media is not well.
Anyway, the questioning
is part of it.
The anxiety is part of it.
What I predict-- and this
is a long-term prediction,
so I'm going to make it
here for the first time.
Is that, by 2033,
12 years from now,
we will have come
full circle and start
to have more
appreciation for what
we call mainstream media-- for
journalists who have studied
six years in college and
got their masters, and who
read every day, and who are
on the front lines gathering
information.
That they might be a little
better at this than--
>>REGINA: A blogger who
got a bug up their-- yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: --somebody in
their mother's basement.
Right?
We're not there yet.
We're in the phase,
still, of questioning,
and rejecting mainstream
politics, media, finance,
and so forth.
But we're going to come
back around to this point
after we've been fed a
lot of misinformation
by people in their basement,
blogging or whatever.
And we're going
to say, OK, basta.
That's enough of this.
Let's get the experts
back on the train.
And there's a difference between
somebody who is, even as a kid,
holding a microphone, and
wanting to be a journalist,
and trying to figure out
what's happening, and traveling
to the front lines, and getting
real stories from people
versus someone, again, who
is not a real journalist,
and who's just kind of
making stuff up, even,
at the worst case.
I predict, by 2033, we
will have come full circle.
We'll appreciate our
leaders a little bit more,
our mainstream media a little
bit more, and so forth.
But until then, it's going
to be rocky, rough going.
>>REGINA: Well,
Simon, the only way
that would happen
is if our leaders
and if our media also
checked themselves and went
through their own
personal evolution
so that they were
trustworthy again.
>>CHOKOISKY: And it's happening.
It's happening.
So that's going to continue.
That general, big trend is
going to continue for a while.
The way to--
I think, the way to
handle it-- because, see,
in the outsider
period, outsiders
have the wound of abandonment.
Meaning, my government
has let me down.
My father let me down.
With a person, it's usually
the same-sex parent-- usually,
not always.
If you're an outsider--
if I'm an outsider,
as a man, it's
usually my dad I feel
abandoned me in some way.
If I'm a woman, it's my mom
that I feel distant from.
The wound of abandonment
is a blessing in disguise.
There are a few ways
you can deal with it.
The worst way is to
go, you abandoned me.
I'm blaming you for
all of my problems.
And it's OK.
We can indulge in a
little bit of blame.
It feels good.
It's like having
>>REGINA: A tiny pity party.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's like having
a-- exactly, a little ice
cream at midnight, and
just watching rom-coms.
>>REGINA: Little tiny
violin for a short time.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes.
Then the next morning, you wake
up and you get back into it.
The wound of
abandonment, there are
a number of ways to treat it.
One of them is, when
you're abandoned,
you have to stand alone.
And even in your posture,
the way you stand,
you'll notice people who
have this wound lean a lot.
They're not straight.
The camera guy is now--
>>REGINA: Don't do that.
They can't see you--
disappearing from the screen.
>>CHOKOISKY: Right.
But that's an outsider thing.
It's, OK, I'm not
playing by your rules.
So be-- learn to actually stand.
Work on your posture.
Work on the core muscles
that keep you straight.
Another thing is--
and I'm talking
I'm starting with the
physical-- is, get a massage.
The skin is the outsider organ.
It's what separates us
from the outside world.
It's where "not
me" becomes "me."
Get a massage.
Moisturize your skin.
Make sure-- and
it's not for vanity.
It's for health, for staying
grounded as an outsider.
Those are two physical things.
On the not so
physical part, become
someone who is dependable.
Don't abandon your pets.
Don't abandon some
outside-- oh, I've
got to move to an apartment, so
I've got to give my dog away.
No.
Fight for it.
Fight.
Try to stay true to your word.
If you say something,
be dependable.
I know it's hard.
It's very hard.
Oh, well, my car is not working.
Well--
>>REGINA: Find another way.
>>CHOKOISKY: Find another way.
And that heals the
wound of abandonment.
There are a number
of other things.
But the main thing is
taking responsibility
for everything in your
life, even things that--
horrible things that may
have happened to you,
like abuse, things like
that, poverty that you
were born into, whatever it is.
On some level, you asked for it.
Like, on a karmic
level, on a soul level.
I'm not saying anyone
asked for abuse or anything
like that when they came here.
But on some level, it's
part of the plan for you.
And open up to the
divine and say, Lord,
how was this part of the plan?
I'm feeling so
abandoned right now.
Please help me.
That's actually healthy.
And then let the answers come.
>>REGINA: So this is, in effect,
whether you're an outsider
or not--
and I am, and that's your
second trait too, personally.
This actually
applies to everyone,
because the entire era is--
>>CHOKOISKY: Correct.
>>REGINA: --untethering us--
>>CHOKOISKY: We're all having--
>>REGINA: --from our moorings.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
We all have the abandonment
wound right now.
I can't go to work
anymore because of COVID.
I feel abandoned.
Or I don't have a
job anymore, or I
don't have a relationship
anymore because of COVID.
Whatever the case is.
We are all functionally
outsiders right now.
And how we handle this--
the great thing
about an outsider,
period, is you have
tremendous freedom--
freedom of information,
freedom to act.
Now, I have more things I can
do today than options I had,
say, if I had a
job 9:00 to 5:00.
I can go to the movies.
I can ride my bike.
I can exercise.
I can blog.
Whatever.
So embrace the positive,
and take responsibility
and say, OK, this is
what I'm going to do.
And I'm going to take the
high road, not the low road.
>>REGINA: And so by 2022, we
start moving beyond this phase.
But we're still outsiders,
so there's still
more stuff to learn, and
react to, respond to.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes.
The great thing about
outsider periods is,
there's accelerated evolution
in medicine, in computers,
the things that
are leading-edge--
>>REGINA: Quantum computing
is now becoming a reality.
>>CHOKOISKY: In
the next 12 years,
we will see things that none
of us have even imagined.
I mean, even from
the very simple point
of view of vaccines.
No one imagined you
can make a vaccine
in six months or a year.
We're seeing that-- for
good or bad, whatever it is.
Things are
accelerating similarly
in the other sciences.
I warned about hacking
three or four-- even 2016,
when we first went into--
>>REGINA: Oh, increased hacking.
Oh, my god.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's
going to only increase.
It's only going to increase.
>>REGINA: Ransoms.
Ugh.
>>CHOKOISKY: 2023 to 2026,
it's going to become--
it's going to be, I mean,
even bigger than it is now.
>>REGINA: So even
on a personal level,
we have to get used to the
fact we need to kind of protect
our online presence and identity
and create strong passwords,
simple things we can do.
These guys can get
around a lot of it,
but on a simple level, the
ones that aren't as bright,
we just have to be careful.
>>CHOKOISKY: Be careful.
And understand the
outsider's element is space.
And what will happen
is, everyone's
going to start getting--
the virus wants
to get into your space.
Other people want to get into
your space and yell at you,
or whatever--
is to create a sacred
space for yourself.
De-clutter your house.
People who have the wound
of abandonment, outsiders,
we all do like to get cozy.
We collect things-- more
pillows, more books, more this,
because it feels good
in the short term.
Long-term, those things
constrict our space.
De-clutter the house,
but create a sacred space
through meditation,
through sacred sound.
And do that, also, with
your cyber identity.
We're in a period now where
it's not yet at its height.
After 2023, I think
we're going to see
a massive upflow of digital
invasiveness, people invading
your digital space.
>>REGINA: That's a
good thing to know,
because we're so dependent now.
Our commercial lives are so
dependent on being online.
So it might be we
have to go retro--
do local business,
carry a little cash.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Be a little more
analog now that--
>>REGINA: I mean,
that's really important,
useful information
for people to have.
I haven't heard
that anywhere else.
And I thank you for that.
We're going in directions
we weren't planning--
I've kind of tossed
the script out.
But there is one thing on
this nice little suggestion
for a conversation that
I did want to get to.
Is there anything else
you want to wrap up
about this upcoming period,
our space, preserving our own--
protecting our identity
and our sovereignty?
>>CHOKOISKY: Again,
the important thing
is that there's a lot of freedom
and a lot of options that come.
One of the good things
is that we're going
to have a lot of revelations.
More knowledge that the
public, we as outsiders,
will have about how
our government runs,
about spiritual realities,
about things like aliens.
I mean, 20 years ago, if the
news that's coming out about,
maybe, pilots looking
at-- and stuff,
that would be the news
cycle for six months.
>>REGINA: Barely made a blip.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's
like OK, aliens.
And what's next?
And 6 o'clock, we'll talk
about something else.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Exactly.
Well, this is the
time of revelations.
I'm wondering if it was even
portended in biblical times
that there would be a
period of revelations.
Because if there
were ever a time,
this certainly seems to be it.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
it's interesting
that in the mid--
right around 2015,
2016, when we entered this
period, you had Wikileaks.
You've got all of this stuff,
this dump of information
coming into the world.
And at first, the reaction
was, we have to stamp it down.
But as 2016 onwards
happened, you can't.
Because we're in
an outsider period.
You can't contain the wind.
You can't contain space.
Space is all-pervasive.
And governments and
authorities and so forth that
want to hold on to
knowledge are going
to-- they're going to fail.
If I'm advising
people, and higher-ups,
I'm going to say, listen,
release the information,
but put your own spin on it.
And that's how you can at
least guide it in the direction
you want to guide it.
But you can't hold it in.
>>REGINA: You can't hold it in.
And as the consumer of
all of this information,
one thing that
we're really tasked
with doing-- which
we have not had
to be until now, in any serious,
mass way, a collective way,
is the lesson of discernment.
>>CHOKOISKY: Discernment
is everything-- viveka.
>>REGINA: Viveko?
>>CHOKOISKY: Viveka?
In, Sanskrit, the
word is viveka.
Nitya anitya vastu viveka.
To know the difference between
what is ultimately real
and what is not real.
>>REGINA: And that is
the biggest challenge
facing the planet right now.
>>CHOKOISKY: And
in the old days,
before this outsider period,
we relied on our experts--
on our journalists,
on our politicians,
on our priests and priestesses,
and so forth, to tell us,
this is real, this is not real.
As we enter the outsider
period, we've realized, hey,
these people aren't perfect.
And some of them are
actually lying to us.
Aw, hell no.
We're throwing them all out.
So we're in that now.
We will come back,
as I said earlier,
to the point of respecting
and honoring the experts.
We're not there yet.
There has to be a full
kind of a clean slate.
>>REGINA: Well, they're
not trustworthy yet.
So there we go.
I mean, they haven't
earned my trust.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, we go into the kind of
fun stuff around disclosure--
2021, 20 years after
the big disclosure
project at the National
Press Club in Washington, DC.
And as you say, "New York
Times" is the vehicle that they
decided to break this through--
just a drip of it, a
drip feed to the public.
It's been around forever.
Let's look at it from the
historical perspective
of the Vedas.
Because they do mention
people, and flying machines,
and nuclear devastation.
All of these things are there.
Let's talk about that in
the period we're in now.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
Well, in the Vedic--
my inroads into this
is always the Vedic tradition
and the astrological tradition.
And I was always
agnostic about aliens.
I don't know.
But some clients said,
well, do a chart on it.
I said, OK, we'll do a chart on.
So we looked at the chart.
And I've done two charts so far.
The first clearly showed,
this is a real phenomenon.
This is not-- it's not
someone's imagination.
>>REGINA: Well, it's in
the Vedic texts, right?
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes, in some ways.
In the Vedic text,
they talk about--
the difference being is
that in the Vedic text,
otherworldly beings
are sort of like what
the Elohim are in the Bible.
They are--
>>REGINA: Same thing.
>>CHOKOISKY: They
are beings that you
have to do a certain amount
of penance and personal
purification to be
able to have access to.
In the Vedic tradition, it
talks about these heroes
who go through penance, and
then the gods come down.
Now, the word for gods
in the Vedic tradition
is deva, where our word
"divine" comes from.
But the word deva
means a bright being.
It comes from the root
"dev," which means to shine.
So a deva is a divine being
that, first of all, shines.
A god or a deva is also--
deva means "to play."
So they are playful beings
that sort of play about with us
because they can, kind of the
Greek myths where the gods--
Athena and Zeus,
and they're like,
oh, let's see what we'll
do with these mortals.
And the third meaning
is "to gamble."
And that kind of fits
together with "to play,"
that they can be
naughty sometimes too.
They're not always
these divine things.
But the deva is in the
Vedic tradition are not
G-O-D. They're
not "the Supreme."
They are-- so let
me ask, you would
you say that elemental beings,
like mountain spirits or river
spirits, are aliens?
>>REGINA: They're
alien to us, but it
doesn't mean they're
aliens as we classically
understand
third-dimensional beings
from off-planet cultures.
>>CHOKOISKY: Or, say,
ghosts or spirits.
They're-- the way the
Vedas categorizes,
all of these otherworldly
beings have their own individual
realms that you can
access in different ways.
Some of them you access through
a certain type of practice,
and then you can see
this type of deity.
And the way I liken it is,
let's say you go to the bank
and you know the teller.
And you're good friends
with the teller.
And the teller is probably
likely going to give you,
oh, here's a free
check, or here, I'll
take off this
transaction fee for you.
They have a limited amount
of things they can do,
but they can help you.
If you know the branch
manager, that's even better.
You get a preferred
checking account.
You get upgrades.
>>REGINA: We're
going up a realm.
>>CHOKOISKY: We're
But what if you know
the CEO of Wells Fargo,
or whatever the bank is?
Now, you have access
to more benefits.
And then there's even
higher from there.
Similarly, in the
spiritual realms, these--
you can say they're lower
entities-- lower meaning,
they're not below us, but
they are like the teller.
They have limited
ways of helping us.
Then there are ones above
them and above them.
And ultimately,
there is a divine--
the divine which is
singular, plural--
it encompasses everything.
And I think the essence of
most spiritual traditions
is that, yes, you can access
all of the other deities,
and they're very helpful--
these energies.
Oh, goddess of the
river, help me.
And you connect with
her when you go hiking,
and you have a
magical experience.
And that's great.
But ultimately, your
connection to your source
is what it's all about-- knowing
the CEO, or the president,
or whatever, in this
analogy, will open up
all of the doors for you.
And in the Bhagavad
Gita, which is
one of the seminal texts
of the Vedic tradition,
Krishna is talking--
by the way, Krishna and
Krista, and Krishta,
are etymologically similar.
And the word Christ or
Christos is a title.
It's not-- Yeshua was his name.
Christos was his title.
Christos, which means the
Messiah, the anointed one.
They are etymologically similar.
They indicate an
anointed person.
>>REGINA: Bringer of
light and information.
>>CHOKOISKY: Which is where
the word "deva" comes from,
an illuminated being.
So we have human
beings who are born
on earth who have
illumination, because they
are connected to the divine.
Krishna, in this case,
is teaching his friend.
He's saying, listen, all of
the things that you worship,
I'm behind them.
I meaning my essence
as God, as the divine.
I am behind them.
Or in Christ's case, my father.
My father speaks through me.
I and my Father are one.
I think the teaching--
yes, there are beings.
Yes, they come to visit.
Are they the same
as what is talked
about in the Vedic tradition?
Yes and no.
A lot of what's talked
about in the Vedic tradition
are spiritual experiences.
But in some cases,
they do talk about,
a ship comes down with
the sound of thunder,
light it's blinding,
I got up on the ship,
and now I could see the
little trees below me.
And we went to places so far
away, where there's deserts.
And they talk about this.
So clearly, they were
flying somewhere.
There's that experience as well.
But I think the conclusion
is that to earn that, you
had to do great penance.
You had to purify yourself,
to a certain degree,
to be able to access
that experience.
Ultimately, it comes
back down to us to--
>>REGINA: Always
comes back to us.
But I mean, if you
look at the reflections
in the Old Testament,
for example.
Similarly-- well, Chris Hardy--
I don't know if you
know Chris Hardy's work.
She's a French woman who is
the author of several books,
but one is called "Wars
of the Anunnaki Gods,"
deconstructing the stuff that
Sitchin deconstructed even
further.
And looking at these beings
that came and essentially set up
shop as our gods--
our terrestrial gods.
And there was punishment if
you didn't behave correctly.
I don't resonate with
that message at all.
The whole notion that others
have come and set up shop
and demanded our fealty
because they were, perhaps,
more technologically advanced.
Maybe they were more advanced
telepathically in other ways,
and had a commanding presence.
I look at that now,
and there is some kind
of interesting thing
going on, which
I teased a bit in our open
here, that as we don't trust
the religious
institutions anymore--
we don't trust any
institutions anymore, in mass.
We're falling away
from all of them.
That something has to come
in and fill that void.
I would like to know,
from your perspective,
after you looked at this
chart on aliens, what
would be indicated
for humanity to say,
oh, maybe those
guys can save us?
Again, always abrogating
responsibility,
if we're not responsible.
>>CHOKOISKY: Those
guys also live and die.
They're also subject to the
same laws that we're subject to.
They may live a little longer.
They may do a little
bit differently.
Knowing those guys and
having them say these--
asking the teller for help.
>>REGINA: Yes.
But what about our
temptation to, once again,
look beyond
ourselves for saving,
instead of really
embracing with what
I call-- you're calling the
big connection, beyond the CEO?
Your higher self, your soul,
your connection with all,
and the creator.
>>CHOKOISKY: We are
here as a little--
what do they call
it in "Star Trek"?
Bags of mostly-- ugly
bags of mostly water.
In that one episode
of old "Star Trek,"
the crystalline beings says,
"ugly bags of mostly water."
That's how it sees us.
We are these entities--
we're limited in what we can
do physically, and so forth.
So it's natural
to look beyond us.
Also, because we
know, inside of us,
that we shouldn't be limited.
There's something about
us-- it knows, it remembers.
>>REGINA: Is unlimited.
Yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: We have
intimations of immortality,
is what Wordsworth used
to say-- a beautiful poem.
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
>>CHOKOISKY: That we remember--
part of us remembers what it
feels like to have that
freedom of being one with all--
omnipotent, omniscient,
and so forth.
So it's natural to
look beyond ourselves.
What our spiritual traditions
are trying to teach us is that,
ultimately, that journey is--
>>REGINA: The teller.
The bank teller is--
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes, is limited
in how they can help us.
And it's by going within that
you cannot access your inner
CEO.
Now, the cool thing
about the Vedic tradition
that I appreciate
as an astrologer
is, they talk about phenomena
that happened 9,000,
10,000, 12,000 years ago.
There's a part of one of
the astrological texts that
says when Saturn or Mars passed
through this tiny little part
of the zodiac by
the star Aldebaran--
it's called the
carriage of Rohini.
It's a little triangle.
Then massive flooding will
happen unlike anything you've
ever seen that completely
destroys the world.
Well, from an
astronomical standpoint,
that has not happened
until the last melting
of the glaciers in
9,500 BC, and then again
around 10,000 to 11,000 BC.
That's 12,000 years.
>>REGINA: And that's talked
about as the Younger Dryas
period and such.
Yes.
>>CHOKOISKY: We have
archaeological evidence
that there was
great flooding then.
And they talk about it as
if they had observed it.
The Vedic record goes back--
that's the part that gets me,
is that some somebody drew
a correlation between, hey,
this planet's going here
and there's great flooding.
And they wrote it down.
And we know,
astronomically, that hasn't
happened since back then.
So the Vedic tradition
goes way back.
And that's why I
appreciate what they
have to say about
astrology, for one,
but also humankind's
connection to their source.
>>REGINA: The divine.
>>CHOKOISKY: And it always
defaults back to, yes, you
can access the teller
and the branch manager,
but isn't it best to
really know the CEO?
>>REGINA: Couldn't agree more.
I think that's where all
discernment on all levels
comes from, in my opinion,
is being able to access
that part, and that connection
with the all-- all information,
all creativity.
And that said-- you
mentioned this a bit ago,
this whole notion of these
bright, shiny beings that
have come historically.
And they're in the Vedas.
They're mentioned elsewhere.
They're mentioned in
indigenous tribes--
Freddy Silva's books call
them "the shining ones."
Always light.
Some of them call them, in
certain eras, the followers
of Horus-- always about light.
And I think, while
I've just said
I think we need to be
careful about just giving all
our power over to yet another
version of what we perceive
as shining ones,
there are actually
shining ones who
are here now, who
are helping us
develop discernment,
to stay rational,
to stay out of fear.
These people do
exist on this planet,
that are trying to help humanity
move to that next level.
So to keep an eye out
and not ignore it.
And usually, they're
pretty interesting--
I've met a few of them.
They're pretty unpretentious,
pretty amazing people.
You do, I think, a beautiful
job of establishing
that road of
non-fearful reactivity
and calm around the notion
that life is cyclical.
All of these things
will come to pass,
but you have to be
responsible amidst it.
So I don't know if
you're a shining one,
but you certainly are
valuable at this time.
You know what I mean?
And there are others
that are like this.
>>CHOKOISKY: My
teachers-- and I've
had the very good fortune
of meeting truly illuminated
beings in this life.
And when you're
in their presence,
in the presence of a real
guru or a real saint,
there's an aura.
They used to say that, when the
Buddha was coming to a certain
village, within a 20-mile
radius, even the farmers--
they couldn't-- they didn't
even know he was coming.
They would all of a sudden
drop the plow and just kind of
sit and think about life.
Like, you could
feel that radiance.
And unless you've
been around a saint,
it's hard to describe it.
But once you have been
in that presence--
which is why saints and very--
like you said,
illuminated beings
are so important
to our evolution.
And they're here now.
>>REGINA: And they're here now.
>>CHOKOISKY: In human form.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>CHOKOISKY: When you
sit in their presence,
it really changes everything.
Little by little, it starts
to chip away at your darkness.
Because we're all
mirrors, and we've
got dust and crust and all--
but underneath it,
we're pure mirrors.
We reflect the divine light.
And being around teachers
and doing our own inner work,
it slowly polishes
that mirror so you
can reflect better and better.
And you can't undo that.
Once you've been
around a saintly person
and you've received
that kind of initiation,
you can't forget it.
It's like when you've
toasted the sesame seed.
You can't put in the pot
again and have it sprout.
It's not going to sprout.
You're done.
So you've got to
follow that path.
And--
>>REGINA: I think it's
important for people to, again,
have our senses
open on all levels--
our mind, not our brain.
But our mind truly
open to knowing
when we are starting to see
these people, or these beings,
that can help us develop
ourselves further.
And I don't mean
in a trite sense.
I don't mean going
to a workshop.
There's just something that's
coming out of you in response
to it.
>>CHOKOISKY: One great
thing about India's culture
is the respect for the guru.
Now, the guru can
be-- if I'm trying
to learn how to sing
something, for example,
they could be an
8-year-old boy who
is not my guru in other areas.
But in this area, I
bow and touch his feet,
because he's the authority.
Is a deep respect for people
with knowledge or understanding
greater than ours.
And one thing about America--
which is cool about us,
but it's also uncool--
is that we don't have that.
We kind of diss people.
We don't have that
abiding respect
for the principle of wisdom.
Oh, I don't like the
way that guy dresses,
so I'm not going
to listen to him.
>>REGINA: We still don't have
any respect for, kind of,
the sacredness of
life in general.
>>CHOKOISKY: Sacredness, yeah.
Which is also cool,
because we are--
>>REGINA: Inventive.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yes.
It has its good side too, but--
>>REGINA: Industrious.
>>CHOKOISKY: --respect
for the sacred
is something I think
everyone can cultivate.
And even if it comes
from nonstandard sources,
from someone you
wouldn't expect.
>>REGINA: I agree.
I mean, when I was in India,
I went to Tiruvannamalai,
Mount Arunachala.
And we sat in
Ramana's cave, and had
a very interesting experience,
I've got to tell you.
I thought it was--
I thought, am I making--
am I, you know?
But I walked by his-- you
know that portrait of him
reclining, in the ashram
down below, the cave?
I went by and he smiled at
me, and then he winked at me.
And I thought, is
this happening?
So I asked one of the people.
They said, oh, my God,
you got the-- he played
with you a little bit.
Another young Scottish
guy in our group
said, I'm losing my mind.
I walked by this portrait
and he smiled at me.
I think I'm losing my mind.
I said, no, no, sweetie.
He smiled at me too.
Apparently he does this to
certain unsuspecting people--
>>CHOKOISKY: He likes tourists.
He's like, hey,
how are you doing?
>>REGINA: --passing by.
But for me, the most profound
experience of that trip
was a little woman--
I think her name was
Siva Sakthi Ammaiya, who
had a little ashram
that was packed.
I mean, there wasn't
even sitting room left.
Twice a day, for 15
minutes, she would come in.
And she was tiny.
And she would walk in.
She'd have a little
smile, sit down,
and people would sit with her.
And the room was--
it was palpable, the
upliftment, the refinement
of the energy in the room.
One time, I opened my eyes.
My son was there too.
He was in another
part of the room,
and he opened his
eyes, coincidentally,
at the same time and
looked at her, thinking,
what does she do while
we have our eyes closed?
She had these balls
of energy shooting out
at whoever she was
targeting to help
while we had our eyes closed.
And we both saw her doing that.
And then she turned
around and did it to us.
And it was like, boom!
It was like, thank you.
And it was so powerful with
not a single word ever spoken.
Just being in that presence
was beautiful-- not
asking for your fealty.
Not asking for anything.
>>CHOKOISKY: Yeah.
It's just-- it's transmission.
And that's the Tantric
tradition of-- or also,
the Vedantic tradition
of transmission.
Once you've felt that and
you've been in that, you know.
Another way is when you go
to one of these leaf readers,
and they look at your
leaf that was written
300 or 400 years
ago, and they say,
your mother's name is Renee.
How the hell did you know that?
>>REGINA: What kind of leaf
reader are you talking about?
Not the grounds in
your coffee cup.
>>CHOKOISKY: Not the
grounds in your coffee.
These are called nadi--
N-A-D-I-- leaves.
Now, about 100 years
ago, the tradition
was more or less intact, and you
could go to a nadi leaf reader.
It was an ordeal,
because it's usually
in this little villages, muddy
places, you have to-- anyway,
by the time you got there--
and you have translators
and so forth, and they
have to look for your leaf.
You spend a week or two there.
Finally, they find your leaf.
And your whole life is
written in that leaf.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>CHOKOISKY: Like,
wait a minute.
>>REGINA: I've
never heard of this.
>>CHOKOISKY: Somebody
knows something here.
>>REGINA: That's fascinating.
>>CHOKOISKY: This is before
Google, before Facebook.
So they're not googling you.
And they're telling you your
mother and father's name.
This is where you
have two divorces.
You have one brother.
You're this?
Right?
Is that correct?
And you're like, uh, yeah.
OK.
And then they go
off and tell you
about the past life that got
you here, what you should do,
and so forth.
Now, these days,
there are a lot of--
there's a lot of social
engineering going on.
And people have used
this sacred tradition
and kind of made it their own.
So there are a lot of
charlatans as well.
>>REGINA: Everywhere.
>>CHOKOISKY: And so they'll be
like, your mother's name starts
with P, right?
And you'd be like, no.
No, R, R. It starts
with R. And you're like,
yeah, it's R. Right?
So they arrive at it through
a process of deduction.
You have to be
careful with that.
But that doesn't invalidate
the original tradition
that really does exist.
Once you have
access to that, you
realize, OK, there are
people who have access
to spiritual energy,
as you experience,
and spiritual knowledge
that is not arrived
at through the normal means.
There is something out there.
And let me open myself
to it as much as I can,
hang around people
who know things.
And just by virtue of
hanging around them--
it's called satsangha
in Sanskrit,
meaning hanging
out with the wise--
my own vibration
gets heightened.
>>REGINA: This is a
good time for that.
>>CHOKOISKY: It's
a good action plan.
Because we're all tied up in
our homes watching whatever news
source you watch.
>>REGINA: And algorithms are
programming and targeting us.
>>CHOKOISKY: And it's our own--
we're just hanging out
with our own brain.
>>REGINA: Feedback loops.
Yeah.
>>CHOKOISKY: Hang around
good people, and together,
we lift ourselves up.
That's, I think, maybe
one of the best solutions
for the outsider period, is know
that you do fit in somewhere.
You're not alone in your
views and in your stance.
Because when you feel alone,
you start to resent people.
How can they speak that way?
How can these
people be this way?
There are others like me.
And the wound of
abandonment gets mollified.
You don't feel so abandoned when
you have a group, a satsanga.
>>REGINA: Thank you, Simon.
>>CHOKOISKY: My pleasure.
>>REGINA: Enlightening
on many levels.
Thank you so much.
And we'll do this
again, of course.
To read about Dharma types
and Simon's online courses,
you can go to spirittype.com.
You might also enjoy one of
my several other interviews
with Simon here in
the Gaia archives
if you're new to Simon's work.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]